Hello everyone! In this lesson, we have an independent work. It is necessary to make a widget that will
display the weapon icons, the number of cartridges and clips. In the case of a rifle,
when the number of cartridges is infinite, the infinity sign can be displayed. The upside-down 8 symbol is
easy to Google and also the widget should be bottom-right aligned.
Let's start solving our homework. We need to give access
to our CurrentAmmo structure, which holds the current information about
patrons and stores, so let's add a public getter called GetAmmoData.
Next, in the weapon component, in the
same way as we did for UIData, we create the GetWeaponAmmoData function.
We replace the UI with Ammo and also the data type we have FAmmoData.
And the parameter name is also AmmoData.
Copy the body of the GetWeaponUIData function. Replace UI everywhere with Ammo.
And the last thing left to do is in our widget to create a function
that will be available in the blueprint. It will also be called GetWeaponAmmoData.
Go to the .cpp file.
Copy the GetWeaponUIData function.
And replace the UI with Ammo.
The "method selection" refactoring immediately suggests itself.
Because the part of the code for obtaining the weapon component is the same in both functions.
Let's create a function that returns a pointer to the weapon component. Let's call it GetWeaponComponent.
Let's add it to the private section of the .h file.
Copy the code for receiving the component from any function.
Replace false with nullptr and just return the weapon component at the end.
We replace in both functions that part of the code that was responsible for receiving the component.
The last point that can be improved is to rename
all functions to GetCurrentWeaponAmmoData and GetCurrentWeaponUIData.
We are getting data from the current weapon, and the function name without current does not quite reflect this fact.
We all start the project.
Compilation error. Let's see what happened. We forgot to add the
forward declaration of the weapon component class to the widget.
Let's compile one more time.
We have a small compilation error in the blueprint. This is because we renamed
our function. Let's replace it with GetCurrentWeaponUIData.
Click on split struct. Holding down Ctrl on the keyboard, we can drag all threads from one pin
to another, we do the same for the return value and delete the non-existent function. Compile the widget.
Also, to improve readability, we can select nodes that convert the size of the texture to the size of the image
and create a macro or function based on them. Let's create a macro, right click, collapse to macro.
Let's call the macro ImageSizeFromTexture. In fact, a macro is a cosmetic thing that simply
collapses the nodes on the graph. We click twice, we will fall inside. We have created two input pins.
It is enough for us to have one, so the second can be deleted,
because it is the same texture. Change the name in inputs to texture and the name of outputs to size.
And remove the invalid pin by holding alt and clicking on it.
Moving on to creating the weapon UI elements. To do this, on the left in the search, beat the horizontal box.
Let's place the picture and text in this container. In the search, enter the text.
Let's transfer it to the component tree. The next element we need is a spacer.
We also add it to the horizontal box. It serves to discharge other elements.
It doesn't have many properties. We need size and you can put 30 at X - this is the number of units between the
text block and the picture. Let's find the image and add the spacer to the horizontal box as well.
Select the horizontal box in the object tree and set its property SizeToContent to true.
Its size will adjust to the size of the internal elements. Let's adjust the alignment. Select property Anchor
and align to the bottom right corner. Set the x and y positions to 0.
Next, you need to change the alignment, as we did with the crosshair. Only here we need to put units and then the
block will be aligned on the lower right edge. Set PositionX = - 50, PositionY = - 50.
Make indents. And for the image, set the preview image. Selecting RifleMainIcon.
Align the text box to the center.
Find property vertical alignment and click the center alignment button.
Let's start with a picture bind. We have already done this. Select image and press create bind.
Let's call the function GetWeaponIcon.
Copy the blueprints from the crosshair function.
We insert into our new function. Add a conditional operator.
We connect all the strings.
Copy the exit node. If false, then the default texture will rotate,
if not, then connect the SlateBrush. And with Ctrl held down, drag the
strings from the crosshair icon to the main icon. Compile. Let's get a look.
We switch weapons, and the pictures switch.
Moving on.
We need to display information on the ammunition of the current weapon. We select our text and we will do it in the format:
number of cartridges / number of clips. Click on bind opposite property Text.
Rename the function to GetAmmoText.
Let's program the output of the text.
The first thing to do is call the GetCurrentAmmoWeaponData function. We split our structure.
Add a branch node. If the return value is true, then we will print information.
And if false, then we can copy the return node and display empty text.
Convert the number of bullets to string. To do this, in the search, we drive in ToString. Next, we need an
append node , which concatenates the lines. First we have bullets, then a space, slash, space and you can
press add pin. An additional pin will be added. This is where we need to display the number of stores.
We also have a boolean variable, infinite ammo or not. Let's handle this case as well.
Select the select node. This is a template node, which, depending on the value of the variable, allows you to actually make a switch.
That is, if we have the value infinite == false, that is, the number of clips is finite, then in this situation
we simply display them. I saved a comment with an infinity symbol in the event graph before starting the lesson.
Comments are added to the blueprint by pressing the C key. Insert the infinity symbol
if we have infinite weapons. We connect the output of the append node to the return value. An additional
node for converting FString to FText has been added. In general, we could make a special function in our C ++ widget
that just outputs text. But again, this is more related to design,
how we want to display information about the weapon. Therefore, it is better to simply provide all the data
that we have in blueprints . So, let's check. If you are holding a rifle, then cartridges and the symbol of infinity are printed.
If the launcher, then the number of cartridges and the number of clips. Also, if you and I die,
then our images turn into white pictures. We will correct this in the next lesson.